So we've got the site that we
were talking about earlier here,
and we'll kinda go through some
of the philosophical basis
just to kind of like put some
thoughts in our brain to help us
like get a sense of how
everything works here.
I will just mention, like I said for
most of what we're doing we're
gonna use the playgrounds.
I actually made these other two
experimental playgrounds here for
you to kind of try to remember, basically
to play around with Flex boxing grid.
And so, there are ways within
the tutorials to manipulate and
see some of the classes, but
also there are two playgrounds for
kind of just trying out all of these
different ideas and seeing how it
changes the layout as well, so there's
lots of ways to experiment in this site.
And then there are some useful tools,
these are all gonna be built into
the playgrounds that we're using together
in our time here, but I'd kinda wanted to
call them out as something that you
might also want to take a look at.
Which is the, if you use Visual Studio
code, there is this Tailwind IntelliSense,
which is if you saw the number of
those various classes, first of all,
it's actually not that many cuz there's
a very much easy heuristic to this.
But autocomplete is nice, right?
And auto sorting of them into to a way so
that you don't have to kill your
co-workers because you have different
opinions is also nice as well.
And so we use a lot of the IntelliSense
plugin, everyone's team uses as well as
the prettier plugin at build time, because
it will just put the classes in one sane
order and stuff along those lines
that makes life really easy.
We're gonna get all of that for
free today.
If you look inside this Tailwind play,
if it looks a lot like Monaco,
which is the Visual Studio Code Editor
it's cuz it is, right?
And so we're gonna get all of that
stuff for free, but, as you're
hacking on your own, if you all those
things, then you are able to kinda go and
grab those just as easily and
have all that ready to rock and roll.
Great, so we talked a little
bit about what Tailwind was.
We've talked a little bit about
kind of the various classes
we can add to something.
And you'll see that there's kind
of a heuristic here, right?
That we can kinda take advantage of,
right?
We've got this idea, they're kind of built
into a lot of times, if you look at a lot
of our colors, it's like,
what do you want to change the color of?
Like to what color and
to what shade, right?
And there are things for like you
can take a lucky guess what PX and
PY are is padding on the left and right
and padding on the top and bottom, right?
And so it's a lot of this ability font
bold, there is not deviating with a bunch
of very specific classes versus you know
what, even if again, you're watching
me scroll along this line you're like
that seems like a lot of classes.
It is very clear what these classes are,
you are also writing the CSS
somewhere to begin with, right?
And it is a lot clearer what
the intention what I'm changing is then,
Blog post title, right?
And then I pull up the Chrome DevTools,
and
I'm looking at effectively the same
thing to get to the same answers.
For me, the ergonomics of
actually just being able to see
it right then and
there has become incredibly powerful.
And there's some other things
that come with Tailwind,
if you need to be convinced on all the
other advantages of this utility per CSS,
and long blog post like selling
the philosophical ideas.
And if you need to be convinced, let's be
clear what I'm really talking about if
your teammates need to be convinced,
right?
Then you can just inundate
them with blog posts, and
that's all here for you as well.
There's a tweet for
that in a lot of cases.
Cool, so
Tailwind comes this idea of layers.
And what's kinda cool about this is
layers are not a Tailwind thing, right?
Layers are kind of a modern CSS thing.
They've got basic wide
adoption at this point.
And layers are basically, a way to
encapsulate sets of styles, right?
So you don't necessarily have to
always fight with specificity, right?
Within a given layer,
specificity applies and
all the rules of specificity are there.
But then layers work in sequential order,
right?
So even if a subsequent layer with a lower
specificity has a style that overrides it,
the later one still wins, and
you're not throwing importance everywhere,
or tryna come up with gnarly selectors
that just happen to have more specificity.
So that first question of, if I don't
super know, CSS is that gonna hurt me?
Well, the nice part is that between
a lot of the modern changes in CSS,
as well as the way that Tailwind
takes advantage of them,
some of the gnarlier parts of
CSS are taking care of you and
you don't necessarily
have to think about it.
We're gonna look at a kinda Tailwind CSS
in a second, but I kinda wanted to start
with it at very high level first, which is
Tailwind ships with three layers, right?
The first one is the base layer, and
this is Tailwind effectively ships
with a CSS reset, called preflight.
And it is, it is an aggressive CSS reset,
I will say,
you will need to style some
of the basic elements, and
we'll kinda look at how to do that as
one of the first things that we do.
Then there are components, so
that question I got earlier, which is,
well, if I want to make some of
these higher order things, right?
Where would I go about doing that?
That's where you have
the components layer four.
And again, when we get into it, there's a
certain amount of, do you really need to,
I again, have a softer position on that
than I think, maybe the creators do.
And then utilities are like,
one thing's like setting a margin, or
the gap between two columns or
something along those lines.
And those layers obviously are set up so
that obviously the little utilities those
one-off things you need to do are in
that later layer, yeah, I said that.
And so regardless of specificity,
they have a higher precedence
over the base style, so
you spend less time thinking about this.
And you can go in like these
layers are set up for you,
you can extend any of these layers.
But there's some probably
some new syntax here, and
we will explore it together in
the little playground a second, but
I kinda want to do the kind of
high-level introduction to it as well.
Tailwind is like effectively it's
installing those three layers, and
you can open up any of those layers.
That @layer is not Tailwind-specific.
Now post CSS is gonna help you,
not worry about IE11 or
what have you, right?
Not that I personally worry about IE11
that much anymore, but it will help you
with the translation more So you can use
modern CSS, but layers are part of CSS.
As I said, but this apply is super
interesting, this is actually
something provided by Tailwind,
right, by declaring this directive.
And apply allows you to just basically
take any of these utility classes into
that question I got the very beginning.
Allows you to compose other
classes based on this.
Instead of having to go in there and
then, my custom stuff,
I've got to go back to writing regular
CSS, you're welcome to write regular CSS.
And I'll actually show you how to
still take advantage of Tailwind and
write regular CSS, or you can
basically create either base styles or
component styles, or maybe utility styles.
The utility style's
supposed to be one-off,
you're composing them off of
other one-offs, it's kinda weird.
But it's there for you as well,
and you can kinda use this and
we'll kinda see that a few times cuz
at certain points I'm just gonna do it.
And I think, like for me, I always do
with like the base styles as well.
But we'll see ways to hook into the theme
and stuff along those lines, so
you don't have to worry about yourself
getting out of sync with anything else
which will be super cool.
You can put together some of these common
components that you might use as well,
like again,
the kinda rule though is like it gets
a little bit harder especially if
you've got these layers fine, but
then if you're also doing a spell
component or view component, right?
Those get a little bit
tricky to figure it out.
It is the the way that the purge
CSS works and Tailwind,
is both beautiful in
how rudimentary it is.
You know how it works?
Just regexes,
it is just a regex on your project.
It's just looking for all of those class
names, and if it finds it, it puts in
the bundle, and if it doesn't find it, it
doesn't put it in the bundle, that's it.
And so, and at one point later we'll
kinda configure it in a project as well.
And you can create more classes so
on and so forth.
And so you've got a lot of flexibility,
and under the hood,
you've got all of CSS, you have
an exit door anytime that you want,
if you need to do something very specific.
But you're also gonna learn that you can
actually get to that exit door just using
these utility classes as well, and
we'll see that as we go along.